# Machine Learning Project - Geervan Thanra

## Project Overview
A new information era has been ushered in by the quick expansion of data collection. The usage of data to develop more effective systems is where recommendation systems are useful.  One kind of information filtering system is a recommendation system, which enhances the quality of search results by presenting items that are more pertinent to the search query or are connected to the user's search history. Recommendation systems (RS) belong to the category of information filtering systems designed to predict the preference users would give to a topic. They mimic the social action of relying on recommendations from others and augment the process further (Khanal, 2020). They are employed to forecast a user's preference or rating for a product. Amazon uses it to suggest products to customers, YouTube uses it to decide which video to play next on autoplay, and Facebook uses it to recommend pages to like and people to follow. Moreover, companies like Netflix and Spotify depend highly on the effectiveness of their recommendation engines for their business and success.

There are several ways to build a recommendation system, content based filtering is used in this notebook. In this notebook, the solution will be used to see recommendation result. Based on several parameters, the model will recommend different types of movies based to the user. Dataset being used in this notebook is from kaggle (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/tmdb/tmdb-movie-metadata).

Referensi :
Khanal, Shristi Shakya, et al. "A systematic review: machine learning based recommendation systems for e-learning." Education and Information Technologies 25.4 (2020): 2635-2664.


## Business Understanding

### Problem Statements
- Building a solution which can identify and recommend movies based on several parameters
- Evaluating the result

### Goals
- Using machine learning, namely recommendation system to recommend movies to the user
- Model performs well

### Solution Statements
- Using cosine similiearity and TF-IDF for content based filtering
- Comparing the recommendations with precision@k


## Data Understanding

The first dataset contains the following features:

- movie_id - A unique identifier for each movie.
- cast - The name of lead and supporting actors.
- crew - The name of Director, Editor, Composer, Writer etc.


The second dataset contrains the following features:
- budget - The budget in which the movie was made.
- genre - The genre of the movie, Action, Comedy ,Thriller etc.
- homepage - A link to the homepage of the movie.
- id - This is infact the movie_id as in the first dataset.
- keywords - The keywords or tags related to the movie.
- original_language - The language in which the movie was made.
- original_title - The title of the movie before translation or adaptation.
- overview - A brief description of the movie.
- popularity - A numeric quantity specifying the movie popularity.
- production_companies - The production house of the movie.
- production_countries - The country in which it was produced.
- release_date - The date on which it was released.
- revenue - The worldwide revenue generated by the movie.
- runtime - The running time of the movie in minutes.
- status - "Released" or "Rumored".
- tagline - Movie's tagline.
- title - Title of the movie.
- vote_average - average ratings the movie recieved.
- vote_count - the count of votes recieved.

Both datasets will be combined to use all the features available. In total there will be 4809 rows of data with 23 columns. The amount of rows will be reduced after cleaning. This is the dataset that will be used in this notebook.


Based on graphs and the data in the dataset :
- There are several null values in tagline, release date, overview, runtime, and homepage
- there are numerical and non numerical datas
- Most ratings is at 7-8
- The most common language is english
- Most of the moviess here has been released

Steps needed to do in data preparation:
-  handle the null values, delete the rows containing those movie_id
-  filter the unused columns
-  remove id as movie_id exist

## Data Preparation

### Steps
- remove the id column as movie_id is just the same column
- change all null values in the tagline column into "No tagline"
- change all null values in the homepage column into "No homepage"
- drop all the null values from release date, overview, and runtime

Null values must be removed from the dataset so the model can efficiently learn.

For feature extraction, TF-IDF will be used on overview column. This technique converts each movie’s plot summary into a numerical vector that reflects the importance of each word relative to the entire collection of overviews. Words that appear frequently in a specific movie’s overview but rarely across all movies get higher weights, capturing what makes that movie’s description unique.

From the cast, crew and keywords features, we need to extract the three most important actors, the director and the keywords associated with that movie into a new column, this is so the model can learn more from the data and make better recommendations.

## Modelling


Once all the values in final column are transformed into these TF-IDF vectors, we use cosine similarity to measure how alike two movies are based on their plots. Cosine similarity calculates the cosine of the angle between two vectors in a multi-dimensional space. A similarity score of 1 means the plots are identical in terms of word distribution, while a score close to 0 means they share very little in common. By computing cosine similarity between all pairs of movies, we can find which films have the most similar story descriptions and use that information to recommend movies that are likely related in content.

For testing this model, 2 recommendations will be done. For "Avatar" the model recommends : 
2405                     Aliens,
206         Clash of the Titans,
587                   The Abyss,
43         Terminator Salvation,
282                   True Lies,
132         Wrath of the Titans,
1450                   Sabotage,
47      Star Trek Into Darkness,
3442             The Terminator,
3187            The Ice Pirates

For "JFK", the model recommends :
1530                     Criminal,
884              Zero Dark Thirty,
737     Jack Ryan: Shadow Recruit,
188                          Salt,
969                     Assassins,
2143                         Milk,
2505                 The Homesman,
484                   The Postman,
2010        In the Valley of Elah,
2280           Dances with Wolves,

## Evaluation
For evaluation, Precision@K will be used. Precision@K is a common evaluation metric for recommender systems and information retrieval. It measures how many of the top-K recommended items are actually relevant to the user.

Equation : 
Precision@K = (Number of relevant items in top K recommendations) / K

Precision@K is calculated as the number of relevant items in the top-K recommendations divided by K. For example, if a recommendation system suggests 10 movies to a user and only 1 of them is actually something the user likes (as per the ground-truth), then the Precision@10 would be 0.1, or 10%.

In this context, the model achieved a Precision@5 score of 0.176, meaning that, on average, only 17% of the top-5 recommended items were relevant for the users. 